Hello and welcome to yet another video. In this video we are going to understand how the internet technologies are going to work.
In the last video when i was introducing this entire course content i mentioned multiple times terminologies like backend and front end and i also mentioned that this entire course is going to be around backend and front end.
But do we really understand what backend is and what frontend is, probably not. So in this video we are basically going to start focusing on our understanding what dontend is like and what backend is like.
So this is gonna be the primary goal around this video so that is exactly what we are going to focus on write now. So lets go ahead and try to understand what backend could be like and what frontend would be like and how these two technologies are going to interact with each other in order to make our entire web application.
So lets move ahead and start see how this has to be done. Coming back to my screen if we start focusing on my screen right now we can start to imagine that, lets say that there is a person who is basically going to connenct to a certain website.
So lets say this our person and we will name this person as Anurag, okay. There is this guy called anurag now anurag owns a laptop, say, letbme bring my laptop over here.
This is the laptop that anurag has, okay, So now anurag wants to connect to lets something called as facebook, i am pretty sure that most of us have used facebook and using this example can be relateable for most of us which is why i am going to make use of an example of facebook.
So lets assume that anurag owns a laptop and anurag wants to present the website of facebook, so what anurag does is he writes www.facebook.com on his laptop and presses enter on his machine.
Then what happens well the domain www.facebook.comis going to reslove to some sort of ip address where facebook is posted. Now facebook is a vey major component and therefore  can be posted on multiple locations, so lets say that there going to be some ip address which is owned by some sort of server or any other type of machine which can connect to the internet where the information of how facebook is going to look like or how facebook website is going to load like is present.
Lets call it inside this particular server like this okay. Lets try to remark or show with the help of this diagram. So as soon as anurag enters the information on his laptop, the laptop tries to make a connection between the ip address that www.facebook.com will resolving to between itself and that particular place.
So lets try to show that with the help of arrow. So this arrow represents the connection between that particular place where facebook is posted and this particular laptop, lets call it facebook, okay.
In reaity this facebook that we are going to see over there it is actually the front end application. Now when i say frontend application what it means is that the frontend side of facebook which contains the information of how facebook should look, how facebook should interact that is completely contained inside this particular place.
Okay so we will call it front end server, so i will write over here FE Server, something like this which means that the front end is actually posted over here. Now as soon as a connection is established this FE Server return with some information to this particular laptop so that the laptop can shoe all the information to the user on there screen.
Now we now that whenever we try to access any website at the end  of the day it is gonna translate to html, css and javascript only and that is exactly what this FE Server will return to this laptop. So there is gonna be a connection  from this side as well which is gonna look somewhat like this okay it somewhat gonna look like this.
Now lets say that the user on there machine that is anurag tries to enter his current user name password. Lets say anurag@email.comand password as 123anurag. After entering this much information anurag presses enter so as soon as anurag presses enter or the return key in his laptop after writing his email and password then this information is immediately sent back to this server.
Now this frontend server needs to make sure that the email and password written by anurag was correct or incorrect that is what the job of this frontend server but this frontend sever cannot do this on itself therefore this frontend server will require some help and usually the right architecture. This particular help is provided by the brain of this entire web application which is gonna be backend server, okay.
Now the front end server is gonna talk to the backend server by giving this information to the backend server of this email and password that anurag is providing. So front end server will tell the backend server that hey backend this the email and password i have got from anurag can you please check if this email and password combination is correct or incorrect. 
Then this backend server will have to see or look at some place where some information is kept that is usually going to be the database. So the database is gonna be here over like this it is usaully the backend server that gets or interacts with the database in order to find that there is record like that or not. So the backend server is gonna check inside the database for a use with email as anuarg@email.com and therefore will find this information the database will return this information to this backend server.
So the database can tend be backend whether there is a user with the email or not if there is then there is an that will also be provide to the backend server.
Now on the basis of the information recieved from the database the backend server will try to find if the user is there or not, if not it will tell the front end the server that the user is not there.
In case the user is there the backend try to identify whether the entered password is correct or not. If it is correct then also it will try inform the forntend server otherwise it will tell it to the front end server that the password that has been entered is actually incorrect and that information will be passed down to the frontend server like this, okay.
So after the information has been passed downed to the frontend server the front end server will take decision of what to show to the user. Now in case the user name and the password combination or the email and the password combination is incorrect then that will result in showing an error message in the laptop that is what it is going to translate it to incase if the combination of email and password is correct then it is gonna translate to this user being redirected to the him screen where there can see the information of there own profile and everything e;se.
In case the user only does not exist then that is also something that we shuld be able to show now as you can see that they are extremely depenedent on each other and one failure can result in whole applications failure. Now imagine that the backend  side the password is incorrect now dispite recieving the information and the password is incorrect the frontend still allows the user to go to the home screen then in that case it is a error frontend server only.
Therefore each of them need to work in accordance with each other and completely in sink so that they can work together and get this whole application work just like the way it is expected and this the whole way that a apllication or a web application is gonna work. 
So this is gonna be our database inside our own terminology or inside the application development that we are going to do the front end server will be represented by the react so all the four that is gonna be inside the frontend server that will be written with the help of react, for the backend server it will bw written with the help of node + express and lastly the database is gonna be written with the help of mongodb like this.
So here we see M, here N+E and here R. So this is what mern stack is gonna be like, okay so Mongodb is gonna be connected with the backend server the backend server is gonna give information to frontend server when and wherever neccessary and the frontend server will run itself on the machine user so that they can access run the application just like the way we are expected to be and with this our entire web application will run in sink with each other so this is pretty much it about the introduction about the mern stack and how basically this internet is gonna work.
For fun fact, at the very start of the video i mentioned that whenever the user is going to write www.facebook.com on their browser they are gonna connect to this frontend server and this front end server is actually gonna be posted on some location Now we know that every device is gonna connect to an internet is gonna be associated to an ip address. Now the way this works is actually whenever we try to permit the return key after writing the www.facebook.com your router or your written connection provider is gonna help or gonna make use of dns inside your area in order to identify that this domain is actually connected to what ip adrress.
So dns  which is domain name server it is gonna identify that this domain name  is connected with what ip address. After finding the ip address which is gonna be  on the frontend server it is gonna take the ip address to make the request on this ip address and then the information will reach the server and your will transfered with the help of osi layer. And this is exactly how the user side or the networking side of this works and that it is exactly how the establishment of the connection happens between frontend server and the device that is going to use which is also called as flying.
The frontend and backend server are very interconnected with each other and they implement lot of partnership and handshake with each other and so does the backend server and the database. In a web application there can be multiple  backend servers as well in case i have to draw, there can be multiple backend servers doing different jobs. Similary there can be multiple databases doing different jobs that is also possible. But these insatnces or these scenarios will not be covering we will mostly understand the veru basics of this fundamental concepts of connection of applications or different types of connection and components that are going to invloved inside our applications.
So this is pretty much it from my side in this video.
